Add documentation based on Material for MkDocs. (#807)
obi1kenobi/trustfall: docs/docs/language_reference/schema/index.md

## Vertex types and properties

A [vertex][vertex] is akin to a table in SQL, given our Flutter example where
we have users and they may post things, or follow other users we can see we have

> two clear vertices. A User vertex and a Post vertex.

Reviewer: The sentence structure is a bit unclear, possibly because of some editing that's still in progress?

A vertex can have properties associated with it (similar to columns in SQL), and
edges. We'll initially just focus on properties as these are the simplest case.
For a user we can imagine the following properties as a minimum:

* `url`: the URL to the users profile page (REQUIRED)
* `username`: the unique username of the account (REQUIRED)
* `display_name`: the name we display for the user (OPTIONAL)

With these two properties we can define a type for the schema called `User` which
looks as follows:

```graphql
"""
A user account on Flutter.
"""
type User {
    """
    The URL of this user's profile page.
    """
    url: String!

    """
    The user's unique username. All users are required to have one.
    """
    username: String!

    """
    The name the user would like to be known by, if any was set.

    If the user has not set a display name, this value will be `null`.
    """
    display_name: String
}
```

Here we've defined three string properties with doc comments to describe them. We've 
also made `url` and `username` required fields by adding the `!` suffix to the type. This

> means that the value can't be null. Alternatively, `display_name` is allowed to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
means that the value can't be null. Meanwhile, `display_name` is allowed to be
```

`null` as it is just a `String`.

> We'll now also define our `Post` type, this will be very similar with a url to the post and
> a message representing the post. For now the user who posted it will be omitted and covered
> in the Edges section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll now also define our `Post` type: it will be very similar, with a url to the post and
a message representing the post. For now, the user who posted it will be omitted and covered
in the next section.
```

```graphql
"""
A message posted by a Flutter user.
"""
type Post implements Webpage {
    """
    The URL of this post.
    """
    url: String!

    """
    The contents of the posted message.
    """
    message: String!
}
```

## Edges

> For our two vertices, we might want to query data that refers to other vertices. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We may also want to query data that refers to other vertices. This is
```

> what edges are for - relationships between other vertex types. For our user, these edges will

Reviewer: nit: em-dash, Cmd + Option + - on macOS, Win + . then "find it" in the menu on Windows
```suggestion
what edges are for — relationships between other vertex types. For our user, these edges will
```

> be the posts the user has created, and a list of the other users they follow. Adding these
> to the vertex we now get the following schema type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be the posts the user has created, and a list of the other users they follow.
We thus get the following schema for the `User` vertex type:
```

```graphql
"""
A user account on Flutter.
"""
type User {
    # own properties
    """
    The URL of this user's profile page.
    """
    url: String!

    """
    The user's unique username. All users are required to have one.
    """
    username: String!

    """
    The name the user would like to be known by, if any was set.

    If the user has not set a display name, this value will be `null`.
    """
    display_name: String
    # end of properties

>     # edges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # own edges
```

    """
    The messages posted by this user, if any.
    """
    posts: [Post!]

    """
    The users this user follows, if any.
    """
    follows: [User!]
}
```

Here we've split properties and edges and used non-doc comments such as `# own properties`
to signal this. Also, as a user can make multiple posts and follow multiple people the type

> of both edges is a list. Posts is a list of non-null post objects with the type `[Post!]` and

Reviewer: This might not be the right place and time to mention it, but edges have interesting nullability rules:
- `Post` means "0 or 1 post"
- `Post!` means "exactly 1 post"
- `[Post!]` means "0 or more posts"
- `[Post!]!` means "1 or more posts"

If the outer type is a list, the inner type must be non-nullable. `[Post]` and `[Post]!` aren't allowed because saying "the list might exist but be full of `null` neighboring vertices" doesn't make any sense.

> Here we've split properties and edges and used non-doc comments such as `# own properties`
> to signal this. Also, as a user can make multiple posts and follow multiple people the type
> of both edges is a list. Posts is a list of non-null post objects with the type `[Post!]` and
> follows is similar a list of non-null users `[User!]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For readability, here we've split properties and edges using non-doc comments such as `# own edges`.

As a user can make multiple posts and follow multiple people, the type
of both edges is a list. Posts is a list of non-null post objects with the type `[Post!]` and
follows is similar a list of non-null users `[User!]`.
```

> Applying a similar change to Post we now add an edge for the author of the post, a single non-null
> User.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying a similar change to `Post` we now add an edge for the author of the post, a single non-null
`User`.
```

    """
    author: User!
}
```

## Interfaces

Both the User and Post vertex types have a url field, we can therefore have them both implement
the same interface. Interfaces are similar to GraphQL and programming languages which use them
in that we can define a set of properties an interface must provide and also set our edge and
query types to be interfaces instead of concrete types. Let's add a webpage interface to contain
the URL field and have our vertex types implement it:

```graphql
"""
A piece of data that has its own webpage.
"""
interface Webpage {
    # properties
    """
    The human-readable URL at which this webpage may be visited.
    """
    url: String!
}

"""
A user account on Flutter.
"""
type User implements Webpage {
    # properties from Webpage
    """
    The URL of this user's profile page.
    """
    url: String!

    # own properties
    """
    The user's unique username. All users are required to have one.
    """
    username: String!

    """
    The name the user would like to be known by, if any was set.

    If the user has not set a display name, this value will be `null`.
    """
    display_name: String
    # end of properties

>     # edges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # own edges
```

    """
    The messages posted by this user, if any.
    """
    posts: [Post!]

    """
    The users this user follows, if any.
    """
    follows: [User!]
}

"""
A message posted by a Flutter user.
"""
type Post implements Webpage {
    # properties from Webpage
    """
    The URL of this post.
    """
    url: String!

    # own properties
    """
    The contents of the posted message.
    """
    message: String!

>     # edges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # own edges
```

    """
    The user who authored this post.

    Each post has precisely one author.
    """
    author: User!
}
```

## Entrypoints

An entrypoint gives us an initial set of vertices to work with. Each Trustfall schema needs

> a root element called `schema` with a field `query` that is our entrypoint type - the starting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a root element called `schema` with a field `query` that is our entrypoint type — the starting
```

point of the query.

In the entrypoint we want to provide the means to query our data source for the initial set of
vertices we'll consider and filter or transform. For data sources like APIs we'll usually define
some queries that map to API queries. For data types where all the data is already present such
as a schema representing something like a json file our entrypoint type may well have no queries

> and just properties and/or edges. 

Reviewer: This paragraph is also a bit confusing to me.

For this hypothetic Flutter app, we'll define an entrypoint type with two queries:

1. Find a user by their username
2. Search for posts with a given search query

Adding this into the schema would look like the following:

```graphql
schema {
    query: Entrypoints
}

type Entrypoints {
    """
    Find a specific user by their username, if they exist.
    """
    FindUser(username: String!): User

    """
    Run a search across all public posts with the given search terms.
    """
    SearchPosts(text: String!): [Post!]
}
```

> Here our `FindUser` query takes a non-null string argument `username` and returns a `User`
> which may or may not be null. The `SearchPosts` query takes a non-null string argument `text`
> and returns a list of non-null `Post` where the list would be empty if there were no matching
> posts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here our `FindUser` query takes a non-null string argument `username` and 
returns at most one `User` vertex, resulting in a nullable `User` type for the entrypoint edge. 
The `SearchPosts` query takes a non-null string argument `text`
and returns a list of zero or more matching `Post` vertices.
```

## Vertex types and properties

> A [vertex][vertex] is akin to a table in SQL. given our Flutter example 
> we have users and their posts, and also other users they follow. If we were
> modelling this in SQL we would have a User table and a Post table, and
> therefore in Trustfall we have a User vertex and a Post vertex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [vertex][vertex] is akin to a table in SQL. Consider our Flutter example, 
where we have users and their posts, and also other users they follow. If we were
modelling it in SQL, we would have a `User` table and a `Post` table —
therefore in Trustfall we have a `User` vertex and a `Post` vertex.
```

}
```

For readability, here we've split properties and edges using non-doc comments such as `# own edges`.

As a user can make multiple posts and follow multiple people, the type
of both edges is a list. Posts is a list of non-null post objects with the type `[Post!]` and
follows is similar a list of non-null users `[User!]`.

There are some nullability rules to be aware of with the Trustfall edges, these are all the valid
forms of a `Post` edge: 

* `Post` is 0 or 1 post
* `Post!` is exactly 1 post

> * [Post!] is 0 or more posts
> * [Post!]! is 1 or more posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `[Post!]` is 0 or more posts
* `[Post!]!` is 1 or more posts
```

In our example the last one is the only one we won't be using. By making the list non-null it
guarantees a single value. We can't place just a `Post` as having a list of multiple neighbours 

> that don't exist doesn't make sense — and would also complicate our queries.

Reviewer: I'm confused about this:
> By making the list non-null it guarantees a single value.

Also the next sentence seems not entirely grammatical. Perhaps a small rewrite?

Author: okay gave it another shot

* `Post` is 0 or 1 post
* `Post!` is exactly 1 post
* `[Post!]` is 0 or more posts
* `[Post!]!` is 1 or more posts

In our example the last one is the only one we won't be using. By making the list non-nullable `[Post!]!` 

> it guarantees a single value - whereas in normal graphql this can still be an empty list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it guarantees at least one value - whereas in normal GraphQL this can still be an empty list.
```

## Entrypoints

An entrypoint gives us an initial set of vertices to work with. Each Trustfall schema needs
a root element called `schema` with a field `query` that is our entrypoint type — the starting
point of the query.

In the entrypoint we want to provide the means to query our data source for the initial set of
vertices we'll consider and filter or transform. For data sources like APIs we'll usually define

> some queries that map to API queries. If all of our data is already available, we might have no
> queries and just properties and edges. Although, even in that case we may want to add some
> queries to simplify some operations that would be complicated or impossible to express in a
> Trustfall query.

Reviewer: I think this used "queries" where I would have used "entrypoints" per the term we just defined.

Suggested tweak:
```suggestion
some entrypoints that map to API endpoints. If all of our data is available without restrictions,
like in a SQL database, we might just define simple entrypoints named after
(and returning a list of) each vertex type. Although, even in that case we may want to
add some more sophisticated entrypoints, to simplify some operations that might
be complicated or impossible to express in a Trustfall query.
```

> For this hypothetic Flutter app, we'll define an entrypoint type with two queries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this hypothetical Flutter app, we'll define an entrypoint type with two queries:
```
